-[TIRES SCREECHING]
-[CAR HORN HONKING]
[SOBS]
[GRUNTS]
[CAR HORN HONKING]
[TIRES SCREECHING]
-[GASPS]
-[CRASHES]
ALMA: I'm so bored of living.
I wake up every morning
in the same bed
with the same person.
I shower.
Brush my teeth.
I get dressed.
And I eat the same breakfast.
And then take the same commute to work.
I'm 28 years old,
and I'm terrified
this is all there is.
Sometimes, I'll be in the store, and I'll be looking  at two different cans of beans,
and I'll think,
"These beans are better."
"No, these beans are better."
And then I'll think,  "That's the most boring thought anyone's ever had."
I mean, God!
Everything is pointless.
Anyway, what's up with you?
What's new with me?
-[CLEARS THROAT] Nothing...
-Great.
-No... My face is really itchy.
-What, are you getting eczema?
No, I'm not getting--
Why would you even say that?
Look at my finger.
Oh, my God!
Holy shit!
-Reed Hollingsworth.
-What's wrong with Reed?
-Nothing. At all.
-Mm-hm.
He's fine. He's totally fine.
-Uh-huh.
-And unassuming, and nice.
He's very nice.
Well, that's good.
It's a good thing to be nice.
And his family is really rich,
and well-connected,
and super classist.
-Oh, they're "classist"?
-And racist.
This is about the asparagus.
[IN MATRONLY TEXAN ACCENT]
"Oh, I see we're passing
the asparagus
counterclockwise tonight--"
So his mom has an idea
about the proper way to
pass food around a dining table.
[MIMICS REED'S MOM]
"Is that how they do it
in México?!"
Maybe she was
legitimately curious.
[IN NORMAL VOICE]
We're not from Mexico.
Yeah, but our mom is.
Do you think Dad
would have liked Reed?
Yeah, I do, actually.
And you don't think it's weird
to get married without
Dad there?
What am I supposed to do,
just never get married?
ALMA: That's an idea.
Ladies. Get you another round?
-Yes, I will have
a Fancy Familiar.
-I don't know what that is.
It's a Mozambique Samba
just without the sherbet.
BECCA: [LAUGHING]
You're so stupid. Stop it,
why do you always do that?
Um, we're gonna have
shots of Patrón, please.
And don't go far
'cause you're gonna have
to keep fillin' 'em up.
You got it.
-Ugh!
-[CHUCKLES]
And why did you order shots?
You know I'm trying
to drink less.
Alma, your only sister
just got engaged.
We're doing shots.
And then I'm going to
make you listen to
the story of how he proposed.
-Oh, my God.
-It's so romantic.
I am going to need booze
for this.
Two shots of Patrón.
Thank you.
What?
To my sister
and her life choices
which... I support.
[KEYS JANGLING]
-[PIANO KEYS THUD]
-[SHUSHES]
[ALMA EXHALES]
-[ALMA CHUCKLES]
-Hey.
What are you doing?
-I'm humping your butt.
-Oh...
How long you gonna do that?
Until it annoys you.
-[SAM LAUGHS]
-I want the mouth.
[SAM GRUNTS]
[EXHALES] Hey.
Hey.
Can you promise me
that we're not going to be
like one of those
boring couples who like...
[SIGHS]
...gets married and settles down
and has babies
and is like all happy?
-[CHUCKLES] Ew, gross. Never.
-Thank you.
But it wouldn't be
the worst thing
in the world.
-[ALMA GRUNTS]
-[LAUGHING] No.
-That's it!
That's the wrong answer!
-No, no.
-[GRUNTING]
-You're humping me again?
You're so crazy.
No, I'm not.
-I'm not crazy.
-Okay. Sorry. Sorry.
I just can't do it.
I can't do the wedding
and the birth announcements
and the piano lessons
and the matching Halloween
costumes.
[CHUCKLES] True that,
matching Halloween costumes
are lame.
-[SIGHS]
-But, what if you went
as Batman
and I went as Bruce Wayne,
and then every time
we were together,
I'll be like, "Batman!
We're in the same room?
We must totally be
different people, everyone."
That's a couple's costume.
No, it's totally different
because one's Batman
and one's Bruce Wayne.
Two different people.
Okay.
[CHUCKLES]
But for real.
I don't want to settle down.
Right now.
Ever.
-You never know
what's gonna happen.
-No. I know.
Okay, we won't settle down.
We'll be vagabonds
or cat burglars
or hot air balloonists.
-Yeah!
-[LAUGHS]
I like that.
And then we'll settle down
and have kids.
-What?
-I'm sleeping.
[ALMA SIGHS]
[BREATHES HEAVILY]
What's wrong?
The room is spinning.
[MELODIOUS MUSIC PLAYING]
[INDISTINCT CHATTERING]
Cassie, no! Cassie, we don't--
Shoot.
[CASSIE LAUGHS]
-No. Don't squeeze it. No.
-[CASSIE BLABBERING]
Is everything okay here?
Yeah, Cassie's just being
a C. U. N. T.
Wow. Okay. I... Cassie?
Cassie, do you need a time out?
-No!
-Right.
-Seems like you do.
-Yeah.
-Let's do it. Come on.
-There you go.
-Come on. Cassie!
-[CASSIE GRUNTING]
All right, we're gonna sit here
'till you calm down.
'Cause I get paid to force you
to behave. Pretty weird, right?
-I don't want a time out!
-It's not so bad.
Did you know that the Kogi tribe
of Colombia puts their babies
in a dark cave?
-Yeah, I know that.
-Oh, you really, you know that?
Well, did you know
they keep those babies
in a dark cave for nine years?
And as the babies grow,
they tell them stories
about what the world outside
looks like.
What trees and birds
and rainbows
and clouds look like.
And when the babies come out,
they see those things
for the first time.
And they are so blown away
by how much more amazing
the world is
than they could have ever
imagined,
that they have
such incredible respect
for whatever created this place
and all
of the beautiful creatures
living in it.
Can you imagine
feeling that way
about anything, Cassie?
[HUFFS]
All right. Do you want me
to put you in a dark cave?
No, you be in the cave.
Okay, I'll be in the cave, too.
We'll be in the cave together.
[WHISPERS] I like this.
Me, too.
[MELODIOUS MUSIC PLAYING]
CAMILA: Help me find
a cute baby photo of Becca
for her engagement dinner.
ALMA: That's why I'm here, Mom.
Look at this one.
After her first haircut.
Where's the one
where she's toddling
around the market
in Saint Cristobal
with the apple soda
and laughing?
She looks like a tiny,
drunken sailor.
[SIGHS]
What did you know
about Geraldine?
Not much.
She was your father's mother
and she died.
And she got married,
and had three kids,
lost her mind.
What about this one?
Great. Love it. Done.
Where are you going?
To get some water.
Are you coming to church
on Sunday?
Uh, I don't know.
I'm gonna see how I feel.
[WATER POURING]
We have a new priest.
I think you'll like him.
He's into indigenous cultures.
Like conquering them
and appropriating them, or...
Studying them.
Oh, cool. Maybe.
Are you going to bleach
your upper lip
before Becca's dinner?
Unbelievable.
-You just look so pretty
when you try.
-Oh, my God.
I gotta go, Mom.
Whoa.
Is this dad smoking?
Yeah. He smoked on occasion.
-Why didn't I know that?
-He didn't want you to.
-Was he smoking
when he had the accident?
-No.
-How do you know?
-Because I read
the police report.
-Can I read it?
-No!
I don't have it.
It was 20 years ago.
Are there
any other photos of him
I haven't seen, Mom?
-No, that's it.
-I'm taking this.
Fine.
It's just weird to think
that there's stuff about my dad
I never knew.
My mom was married
to some other guy before my dad.
-Really?
-Yeah.
He had two Pomeranians,
a red sports car,
and he beat her
until she had to be
hospitalized.
Oh, my God.
-When did you find that out?
-After I graduated college.
I think she didn't want
to, like, mess me up.
But once I got that diploma,
she was like,
"Let me drop my secrets on you."
See, I never got that.
My dad died
before he could stop
being my dad
and spill
all the family secrets.
-[CELL PHONE BUZZES]
-I gotta get back to work.
Hey. I want to talk to you
about our conversation
the other night.
Yes.
I'm so glad you brought that up.
I totally see your point
about Bruce Wayne and Batman.
If you want something
that I can't give you,
then I don't want
to waste your time.
We're not wasting time.
[EXHALES] I don't know
what's gonna happen,
but right now, this is good,
so let's just stay
in the right now.
Yeah, this is good.
I'll see you later?
You know where I live.
'Cause you live there too. So...
[ROCK MUSIC PLAYING]
ALMA: Ugh. I can't believe
we have to go to this thing.
SAM: Yeah,
and it sucks that your sister
is getting married
and your mom
is throwing her this party
and everyone's happy.
ALMA: Exactly.
SAM: [LAUGHS] I was kidding.
Hi.
I knew
I shouldn't have said anything.
Well, I know you like it
when I wear make-up. So...
Okay. Well, have fun
embarrassing your sister
on her special night.
This isn't her special night.
Her special night
is the wedding.
This is dinner.
This is also a special night.
There are multiple
special nights.
She doesn't care.
You're the only one
who's gonna care.
Always nice to see you, Sam.
Ooh, Sam's getting
some love tonight.
[CHUCKLES] Okay.
Just come inside.
[CAMILA SIGHS]
[INDISTINCT CHATTER]
We can go whenever you're ready.
Don't you think
we should at least
stay through the dinner portion
of the dinner?
Oh! Alma, love the 'stache!
Thanks, Reed.
Is this some rebellion
against Mom?
-Not... Exactly.
-Exactly.
-Good to see you again, Alma.
-Hey, Beth, how are you?
Hey, haven't I see you before
on a Pringles can?!
-[ALL LAUGHING]
-REED: Nice one, Dad.
You getting the reaction
you were hoping for?
-Yes.
-[glass clinks]
Now that we're all here, um,
I'd like to propose a toast.
To Becca Winograd-Diaz.
The love of my life.
When we first got together,
it was like
we were two puzzle pieces
spinning through the universe,
and then click,
we found each other.
-And the puzzle was complete.
-[BECCA CHUCKLES]
It was only a two-piece puzzle.
Like a puzzle for a little baby.
But, uh, yeah.
To Becca!
And the rest of our lives!
I love you. Thank you.
-ALMA: Cheers.
-BECCA: Cheers!
Hey.
I love you.
I love you, too.
We need to talk.
[MELLOW MUSIC PLAYING]
ALMA: Do you ever feel
like you're in a play?
Except you're the only one
that knows it's a play.
[LAUGHTER]
And everyone else
is just playing the role
they think
they're supposed to play,
because that's what you do?
And you're like,
"Hey, this is just a play.
We don't have to do this."
And maybe we shouldn't.
BECCA:
What are you talking about?
I broke up with Sam.
Oh, my God, are you okay?
What happened?
[COUNTRY MUSIC
PLAYING ON STEREO]
I know you don't
really remember,
but Dad's mom was schizophrenic.
I know.
What does that have to do
with anything?
She was perfectly happy
and then she got married
and made a family,
because that's what you
did back then.
And she ended up on lithium,
getting shock treatments,
and shoving a broom handle
through the television set
while her boys
watched Howdy Doody.
Getting married
isn't what made her crazy.
She just had a bad brain.
Yes, but if you know
you have a broken brain
then why would you put
someone else through that?
Okay. Tough love time?
My God, you say that
like you're asking me,
but I never agree
to "tough love time."
I think
what is actually going on
is your younger sister
is getting married before you,
and you feel your life
slipping away.
-No... That's not it.
-Hm? Yes.
An amazing guy
wants to marry me,
and you're jealous.
-Okay. Amazing?
-And it's okay, Alma.
You realized that Sam
wasn't good enough for you,
and you broke up with him.
That's not why I broke up
with Sam.
-And it's okay
to want a better life.
-What are you talking about?
I am talking about the fact
that you could be better,
but you choose not to.
Like,
instead of going back to school
and getting your B.A.,
you work at a day care.
-And you are so smart...
-[SCOFFS]
...but you always, like,
make the losing choice
to, like, prove...
I don't know
what you're trying to prove.
But you don't have to be afraid
to move forward.
I'm doing it, why can't you?
[INHALES]
Can I try on your ring?
Sure.
[BREATHES DEEPLY, CHUCKLES]
-My God!
-I know. I know. I know.
This blood diamond does make me
feel special. Now I get it.
-Okay, give it back to me.
Give it back!
-Hey!
Shots of tequila.
Keep 'em coming.
-You got it.
-Don't get wasted.
We promised Mom
that we'd meet her
at church in the morning.
You promised. I said I'd see.
-I'm not doing shots.
-Yes, you are.
Because your only sister
just got engaged!
Hey, I'll take one with you.
Salud.
ALMA: Shit.
[DANCE MUSIC PLAYING ON STEREO]
Whoo!
ALMA: Okay, okay, okay.
Who's next?
Did whoever stole
all your furniture
have a thing against pianos?
That is not the answer
to my question, Tomás!
Okay, I'm next.
I'm next, I'm next.
-Ask me.
-Okay. Truth or Dare?
-Truth.
-Okay.
What are you most excited
about getting married... about?
Oh, right. Okay.
Well, just, having sex
for the first time.
Nuh-uh, shut up.
Are you seriously a virgin?
She's kidding.
Oh, good,
'cause I was gonna say
you definitely do not seem
like a virgin.
Well, what do I seem like?
-Stop flirting!
-Ow! [LAUGHS]
You're engaged, remember?
Truth or dare?
Dare.
I dare you... to kiss my sis.
-No.
-Yeah!
-No!
It's cool,
you don't have to kiss me
if you don't want to.
No, I want to, but I can't.
ALMA: It's a game, Becca.
It's just a stupid game.
Okay,
one small, tiny, dumb kiss.
There you go.
Thank you. That's it.
Boo! That sucks!
[ALL LAUGHING]
-That was like a Tío Oscar kiss.
-Ew, no, it wasn't.
-Your Uncle Oscar
lip-kisses you?
-He does. He totally does.
-It's super weird.
-[ALMA MUMBLING]
I don't want to kiss you
like your Tío Oscar.
Okay.
[KISSING]
[RETCHING]
PRIEST: "Look at the birds
of the air;
they do not sow or reap
or store away in barns,
and yet our heavenly Father
feeds them.
Are you not much more valuable
than they?"
What does this mean?
Does this mean
that we should not farm
and store away food?
That we should blindly trust God
will provide for us?
That we do nothing to provide
for ourselves?
I was recently at a gathering
of several indigenous groups
from South and Central America.
And one thing
these disparate groups
could agree on
was that humans have lost
their connection with nature.
In fact,
we have forgotten we are nature.
And it is in rhythm with nature
that we are provided for.
Through our not taking selfishly
more than we need,
but instead recognizing...
Where have you been?
Who knows
where this girl's been.
Look at her.
-PRIEST: ...than our small,
fearful desires.
-You know what, forget it.
We are able to step
into this natural balance,
-and live freely,
just like the birds.
-ALMA: Excuse me.
Hey. Okay, look. Last night,
just having a little fun--
Alma, this isn't funny.
This is my life.
Hey, I didn't make you do
whatever it is you did
with that guy.
I hope you feel really special
because you ruined something
that was really beautiful
because it wasn't yours.
Becca, I'm not trying
to ruin your life.
Believe it or not,
I'm trying to help you.
You don't want to marry Reed.
Oh, right. I get it,
he's white, and he's rich,
so you don't like him.
-That's not the point.
-Well, what is the point?
'Cause we're broken people.
Okay?
And broken people break people.
No, I'm not broken, Alma.
I'm not.
I'm really fucking happy,
and I wish that you would stop
telling me
what you think is best for me
because I'm not you.
-Okay...
-You are so insanely
self-involved.
You don't even know
all the things
that are wrong with you.
[BREATHES HEAVILY]
No, I do.
Trust me.
You know what?
Here's your ring.
You can try to hold onto it.
-[TIRES SCREECHING]
-[CAR HORN HONKING]
[SOBS]
[GRUNTS, SOBS]
Dad?
[END THEME MUSIC PLAYING]